# CFGTK - Context Free Grammar Toolkit

cfgtk (Context Free Grammar Toolkit) is a C++ library designed to provide tools
for manipulating and working with context-free grammars (CFGs).
This toolkit is aimed at simplifying the process of working with
context-free languages, offering various utilities for converting, parsing,
and manipulating grammars.

## Features

* Semantic Action Binding: Semantic actions can be bound to parse trees and executed at some later time.
* Parse Chart to String Converter: Converts parse charts generated by the parser into a human-readable string format.
* Grammar to String Converter: Transforms a context-free grammar into a string representation for easy inspection and modification.
* Tree to String Converter: Converts syntax trees into string format, simplifying the visualization of parsed sentence structures.
* Grammar to File Exporter: Exports grammars into various file formats for sharing and reuse.
* CFG to CNF Converter: Converts a given Context-Free Grammar (CFG) into Chomsky Normal Form (CNF) for compatibility with specific parsing algorithms.
* CYK Parser: Implements the Cocke-Younger-Kasami (CYK) parsing algorithm for efficient parsing of context-free languages.
* CLI Lexer: A command-line interface lexer for tokenizing input based on a specified token description table.

## Examples

For a basic calculator implementation, please refer to the demo directory.

## Dependencies

* C++20
* CMake

## Building

```console
cmake -C build
make -C build
```

### Options:

Set ```CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE``` to ```Debug``` to configure the project for
debugging; This will append the ```-Werror -O0 -g``` flags during compilation.

## Installing

```console
make -C build install
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
